docs: update module author guide (#18551)
nuxt/nuxt: docs/2.guide/3.going-further/3.modules.md

---
title: "Module Author Guide"
description: "Learn how to create a Nuxt Module to integrate, enhance or extend any Nuxt applications."
image: '/socials/module-author-guide.jpg'
---

# Module Author Guide

Learn how to create a Nuxt Module to integrate, enhance or extend any Nuxt applications.

Nuxt's [configuration](/docs/api/configuration/nuxt-config) and [hooks](/docs/guide/going-further/hooks) systems make it possible to customize every aspect of Nuxt and add any integration you might need (Vue plugins, CMS, server routes, components, logging, etc.).

> It exposes a powerful API called **Nuxt Modules**: they are functions that sequentially run when starting Nuxt in development mode using `nuxi dev` or building a project for production with `nuxi build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Nuxt Modules** are functions that sequentially run when starting Nuxt in development mode using `nuxi dev` or building a project for production with `nuxi build`.
```

> With modules, you can encapsulate, properly test, and share custom solutions as npm packages without adding unnecessary boilerplate to the Nuxt project itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With modules, you can encapsulate, properly test, and share custom solutions as npm packages without adding unnecessary boilerplate to your project, or requiring changes to Nuxt itself.
```

When running the release script, the following will happen:

- First, it will run your test suite by:
  - Running the linter (`npm run lint`)
  - Running unit, integration, and e2e tests (`npm run test`)
  - Building the module (`npm run prepack`)
- Then, if your test suite went well, it will proceed to publish your module by:
  - Bumping your module version and generating a changelog according to your Conventional Commits
  - Publishing the module to npm (for that purpose, the module will be built again to ensure its updated version number is taken into account in the published artifact)
  - Pushing a git tag representing the newly published version to your git remote origin

::alert{type=info}
As with other scripts, feel free to fine-tune the default `release` script in your `package.json` to better suit your need.
::

## Developing Modules

Nuxt Modules come with a variety of powerful APIs and patterns allowing them to alter a Nuxt application in pretty much any way possible. This section teaches you how to take advantage of those.

### Module Anatomy

We can consider two kinds of Nuxt Modules:

> - Published modules, they are modules published on npm, see a list of them on [the modules page](/modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- published modules are distributed on npm - you can see a list of some community modules on [the Nuxt website](/modules).
```

}
```

> Outside of really short modules, **we do not recommend** using this low-level function definition. Instead, to define a module, **we recommend** using the higher-level `defineNuxtModule` helper provided by [Nuxt Kit](/docs/api/advanced/kit).

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

- Expose `getOptions` and `getMeta` for internal usage of Nuxt
- Ensuring backward and upward compatibility as long as the module is using `defineNuxtModule` from the latest version of `@nuxt/kit`
- Integration with module builder tooling
::

#### Runtime Directory

::alert{type=info}
When using the starter, the runtime directory is available at `src/runtime`.
::

Modules, like everything in a Nuxt configuration, aren't included in your application runtime. However, you might want your module to provide, or inject runtime code to the application it's installed on. That's what the runtime directory enables you to do.

> Inside the runtime directory, you can provide any kind of assets: Vue components, [plugins](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins), stylesheets, or even 3D models. You'll then be able to inject them inside the application from your [module definition](#module-definition).

Reviewer 3: Basically, any files yout want to inject in the Nuxt application of the user

> Inside the runtime directory, you can provide any kind of assets: Vue components, [plugins](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins), stylesheets, or even 3D models. You'll then be able to inject them inside the application from your [module definition](#module-definition).

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

::alert{type=info}
Learn more about asset injection in [the recipes section](#recipes).
::

::alert{type=warning}

> Published modules cannot leverage auto-imports for assets within their runtime directory. Instead, they have to import them explicitly from `#app` or alike.

Reviewer 2: I honestly don't know which one is better to use, I just tend to use the first that works ^^' If `#imports` is more standard/acts as a root, then let's go with it ☺️

If you are using the module starter, auto-imports will not be enabled in your playground either.
::

### Tooling

Modules come with a set of first-party tools to help you with their development.

#### `@nuxt/module-builder`

[Nuxt Module Builder](https://github.com/nuxt/module-builder#readme) is a zero-configuration build tool taking care of all the heavy lifting to build and ship your module. It ensures proper compatibility of your module build artifact with Nuxt applications.

#### `@nuxt/kit`

[Nuxt Kit](/docs/guide/going-further/kit) provides composable utilities to help your module interact with Nuxt applications. It's recommended to use Nuxt Kit utilities over manual alternatives whenever possible to ensure better compatibility and code readability of your module.

::ReadMore{link="/docs/api/advanced/kit" title="API > Advanced > Kit"}
::

#### `@nuxt/test-utils`

[Nuxt Test Utils](/docs/getting-started/testing) is a collection of utilities to help set up and run Nuxt applications within your module tests.

### Recipes

Find here common patterns used to author modules.

#### Altering Nuxt Configuration

> Nuxt configuration can be read and altered by modules. Here's an example of a module enabling an experimental feature.

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

```js
import { defineNuxtModule } from '@nuxt/kit'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  setup (options, nuxt) {
    // We create the `experimental` object if it doesn't exist yet
    nuxt.options.experimental ||= {}
    nuxt.options.experimental.componentIslands = true
  }
})
```

#### Exposing Options to Runtime

> Because modules aren't part of the application runtime, their options aren't too. However, in many cases, you might want to expose module options to the runtime application. We recommend you use Nuxt's [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/api/configuration/nuxt-config#runtimeconfig) for the purpose.

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

<!-- TODO: Update after #18466 (or equivalent) -->

```js
import { defineNuxtModule } from '@nuxt/kit'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  setup (options, nuxt) {

>     nuxt.options.runtimeConfig.public.myModule = options

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

export default defineNuxtModule({
  setup(options, nuxt) {
    const resolver = createResolver(import.meta.url)

    addImportsDir(resolver.resolve('runtime/composables'))
  }
})
```

#### Injecting Other Assets

If your module should provide other kinds of assets, they can also be injected. Here's an example module injecting a stylesheet.

```js
import { defineNuxtModule, addPlugin, createResolver } from '@nuxt/kit'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  setup (options, nuxt) {
    const { resolve } = createResolver(import.meta.url)

> 

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

import MyModule from '../../../src/module'

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  ssr: true,
  modules: [
    MyModule
  ]
})
```

And its test:

```js [test/rendering.ts]
import { describe, it, expect } from 'vitest'
import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url'
import { setup, $fetch } from '@nuxt/test-utils'

describe('ssr', async () => {
  // 2. Setup Nuxt with this fixture inside your test file
  await setup({
    rootDir: fileURLToPath(new URL('./fixtures/ssr', import.meta.url)),
  })

  it('renders the index page', async () => {
    // 3. Interact with the fixture using utilities from `@nuxt/test-utils`
    const html = await $fetch('/')

    // 4. Perform checks related to this fixture
    expect(html).toContain('<div>ssr</div>')
  })
})

// 5. Repeat
describe('csr', async () => { /* ... */ })
```

::alert{type=info}
An example of such a workflow is available on [the module starter](https://github.com/nuxt/starter/blob/module/test/basic.test.ts).
::

#### Manual QA With Playground and Externally

Having a playground Nuxt application to test your module when developing it is really useful. [The module starter integrates one for that purpose](#how-to-develop).

> You can test your module with other Nuxt applications (applications that are not part of your module repository) locally. To do so, you can use [`npm pack`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-pack) command, or your package manager equivalent, to create a tarball from your module. Then in your test project, you can add your module to `package.json` packages as: `"my-module": "file:/path/to/tarball.tgz"`.

Reviewer 2: I thought about advertizing `link` here indeed, but I think there's a gotcha with using so (which would be why the current guide suggests `pack`), maybe @danielroe can enlighten us here? ☺️

After that, you should be able to reference `my-module` like in any regular project.

### Best Practices

With great power comes great responsibility. While module are powerful, here are some best practices to keep in mind while authoring modules to keep applications performant and developer experience great.

#### Async Modules

As we've seen, Nuxt Modules can be asynchronous. For example, you may want to develop a module that needs fetching some API or calling an async function.

> However, be careful with asynchronous behaviors as Nuxt will wait for your module to setup before going to the next module and starting the development server, build process, etc. Prefer deferring time-consuming logic to Nuxt hooks.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I get it but I'm not sure how to refactor that section to hint towards that, any suggestions? 🤔

> However, be careful with asynchronous behaviors as Nuxt will wait for your module to setup before going to the next module and starting the development server, build process, etc. Prefer deferring time-consuming logic to Nuxt hooks.

Reviewer 4: Hm ye I agree it doesn't fit naturally. Maybe it's own section?

> #### Providing Logs

> It's good practice to provide logging within your module for code that could misbehave due to user configuration or environment. Allowing end-users to diagnose problems themselves as well as provide useful information for issues. 

> For example, imagine you're loading files from the user's file system when they are starting your module. The user can provide configuration to change which directories to scan. 

> If the user accidentally provides a path that is going to scan endless files (symlinked node_module, root directories), their nuxt app may hang indefinitely.

> Or they may provide a directory that doesn't hang but is loading more files than expected, resulting in a significantly slower start.

```ts
import { useLogger, defineNuxtModule, resolveFiles } from '@nuxt/kit'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  setup (options, nuxt) {
    const logger = useLogger('my-module')
    nuxt.hook('modules:done', async () => {
      logger.debug('Loading files in ${loadDir}.')
      const files = await resolveFiles(loadDir)
      if (files.length > 1000) {
         logger.warn(`Woah ${files.length} files, that's a lot! Is the ${options.loadDir} directory correct?`)
      }
    })
  }
})
```

> To view debug logs users can run their Nuxt app with debug enabled `DEBUG=* nuxi dev`. 

> When using other aspects of logging, you should avoid spamming the user with messages that don't provide any needed information.

::alert{type="warning"}
If your module takes more than **1 second** to setup, Nuxt will emit a warning about it.
::

#### Always Prefix Exposed Interfaces

Nuxt Modules should provide an explicit prefix for any exposed configuration, plugin, API, composable, or component to avoid conflict with other modules and internals.

Ideally, you should prefix them with your module's name (e.g. if your module is called `nuxt-foo`, expose `<FooButton>` and `useFooBar()` and **not** `<Button>` and `useBar()`).

#### Be TypeScript Friendly

Nuxt 3, has first-class TypeScript integration for the best developer experience.

> Exposing types and using TypeScript to develop modules benefits users even when not using TypeScript directly.

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

#### Avoid CommonJS Syntax

Nuxt 3, relies on native ESM. Please read [Native ES Modules](/docs/guide/concepts/esm) for more information.

#### Document Module Usage

Consider documenting module usage in the readme file:

- Why use this module?
- How to use this module?
- What does this module do?

Linking to the integration website and documentation is always a good idea.

#### Do Not Advertize With a Specific Nuxt Version

Nuxt 3, Nuxt Kit, and other new toolings are made to have both forward and backward compatibility in mind.

Please use "X for Nuxt" instead of "X for Nuxt 3" to avoid fragmentation in the ecosystem and prefer using `meta.compatibility` to set Nuxt version constraints.

#### Stick With Starter Defaults

The module starter comes with a default set of tools and configurations (e.g. ESLint configuration). If you plan on open-sourcing your module, sticking with those defaults ensures your module shares a consistent coding style with other [community modules](/modules) out there, making it easier for others to contribute.

> 

Reviewer 2: Handled in [babd24e](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/18551/commits/babd24e425d7c2e47650f3b355f87f9154095e3b), feel free to reopen if not correct though, happy to keep discussing it!

> 

Reviewer 4: Perfect
